==========
Developers
==========

Git Access
----------

Read-only Git Access
''''''''''''''''''''

::

    git clone git://git.osuosl.org/gitolite/ganeti/ganeti_webmgr

Commit Access
'''''''''''''

Commit access requires an account on our gitolite server. You must
`Submitting Patches`_ and establish a relationship with us prior to being
granted commit access.

::

    git clone git@git.osuosl.org:ganeti/ganeti_webmgr

Branch Layout
-------------

We use `Git-flow <http://github.com/nvie/gitflow>`_ for managing our
branches. Read about the `branching
model <http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/>`_ and
why `you should use it
too <http://jeffkreeftmeijer.com/2010/why-arent-you-using-git-flow/>`_.

-  **master** - Releases only.
-  **develop** - Mostly stable development branch. Small changes only.
   It is acceptable that this branch have bugs, but should remain mostly
   stable.
-  **feature/<name>** - Large code changes and new features.

Coding Standards
----------------

We follow PEP 8, "the guide for python style":
`http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/ <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_.

In addition to PEP 8:

-  Do not use backslash continuations. If a line must be broken up, use
   parenthetical continuations instead.

Units
'''''

Try to write modular code. Focus on isolating units of code that can be
easily analyzed and tested. For sanity purposes, please try to avoid
mutually recursive objects.

JSON
''''

If you need a JSON library, the import for this codebase is "from
django.utils import simplejson as json". See `#6579 <http://code.osuosl.org/issues/6579>`_ for
more information.

Testing
'''''''

Ganeti Web Manager has a fairly complete test suite. New code should
have matching tests. Before committing code, run the suite for Ganeti
Web Manager and `Object
Permissions <http://code.osuosl.org/projects/object-permissions>`_

::

    ./manage.py test ganeti_web
    ./manage.py test object_permissions

Clean up after yourself
'''''''''''''''''''''''

Remember to tear down any resources you set up in your tests. Don't use
"YourModel.objects.all().delete()" to clean up your objects; it could be
hiding bugs. Clean up exactly the resources you created.

Test your setups and teardowns
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

To speed up analysis of broken tests, if you have a setUp() or
tearDown() in a TestCase, add a test\_trivial() method which is empty.
It will pass if your setUp() and tearDown() work.

Views
'''''

All views should be thoroughly tested for security, checking to ensure
that the proper http codes are returned.

-  Test Anonymous User access
-  Test Permission based access
-  Test Superuser based access

Check for invalid input.

-  missing fields
-  invalid data for field

Templates & Javascript
''''''''''''''''''''''

The test suite does not yet include selenium tests for verifying
javascript functionality. Some basic tests can be performed using
django's test suite:

-  Check objects in the context: forms, lists of objects, etc.
-  Check for existence of values in forms.

Adding features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When adding a feature to GWM, please remember to include:

Help tips
'''''''''

The gray box with a green title bar that appears on the right side of
the page when you focus on a form field is a help tip. To add one for a
new field, add it to the file which corresponds to your field's form in
the ganeti\_web/templates/ganeti/helptips/ directory.

Internationalization
''''''''''''''''''''

Ganeti Web Manager is designed to support translation to other languages
using Django's i18n machinery. If you add text that will be displayed to
the user, please remember to format it for translation:
::

    {% trans "this text will be displayed in the correct language" %}

    {% blocktrans %}
        Here is a some text that will be displayed
        in the correct language but would not
        fit well in a single line
    {% endblocktrans %}

`Django's i18n
page <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/>`_ has more
information about this.

Submitting Patches
------------------

Patches should either be attached to issues, or emailed to the mailing
list. If a patch is relevant to an issue, then please attach the patch
to the issue to prevent it from getting lost.

Patches must be in git patch format, as generated by git format-patch.

::

    git commit
    git format-patch HEAD^

To create patches for all changes made from the origin's master branch,
try:

::

    git format-patch origin/master

For more information, see the man page for git-format-patch.

Sending emails to the list can be made easier with git send-mail; see
the man page for git-send-email for instructions on getting your email
system to work with git.

If there are multiple patches comprising a series which should be
applied all at once, git pull requests are fine. Send a rationale for
the pull request, along with a git pull URL and branch name, to the
mailing list.
